---
title: "Two-Dimensional Balanced Partitioning and Efficient Caching for Distributed Graph Analysis."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-11-18-BPart+
excerpt: 'This paper is about a graph partitioning and caching scheme for distributed graph systems.'
date: 2024-11-18
venue: 'IEEE TPDS'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10756620'
citation: 'Shuai Lin, Rui Wang, Yongkun Li, Yinlong Xu, John C.S. Lui. "Two-Dimensional Balanced Partitioning and Efficient Caching for Distributed Graph Analysis," in IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 133-149, Feb. 2025.'
---

Distributed graph analysis usually partitions a large graph into multiple small-sized subgraphs and distributes them into a cluster of machines for computing. Therefore, graph partitioning plays a crucial role in distributed graph analysis. However, the widely used existing graph partitioning schemes balance only in one dimension (number of edges or vertices) or incur a large number of edge cuts, so they degrade the performance of distributed graph analysis. In this article, we propose a novel graph partition scheme BPart and two enhanced algorithms BPart-C and BPart-S to achieve a balanced partition for both vertices and edges, and also reduce the number of edge cuts. Besides, we also propose a neighbor-aware caching scheme to further reduce the number of edge cuts so as to improve the efficiency of distributed graph analysis. Our experimental results show that BPart-C and BPart-S can achieve a better balance in both dimensions (the number of vertices and edges), and meanwhile reducing the number of edge cuts, compared to multiple existing graph partitioning algorithms, i.e., Chunk-V, Chunk-E, Fennel, and Hash. We also integrate these partitioning algorithms into two popular distributed graph systems, KnightKing and Gemini, to validate their impact on graph analysis efficiency. Results show that both BPart-C and BPart-S can significantly reduce the total running time of various graph applications by up to 60% and 70%, respectively. In addition, the neighbor-aware caching scheme can further improve the performance by up to 24%.
